docs/spec/spec.md, before:

# Knative Serving API spec

This file contains the [resource paths](#resource-paths) and
[yaml schemas](#resource-yaml-definitions) that make up the Knative Serving API.

## Resource Paths

Resource paths in the Knative Serving API have the following standard k8s form:

```http
/apis/{apiGroup}/{apiVersion}/namespaces/{metadata.namespace}/{kind}/{metadata.name}
```

For example:

```http
/apis/serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1/namespaces/default/routes/my-service
```

It is expected that each Route will provide a name within a cluster-wide DNS
name. While no particular URL scheme is mandated (consult the `domain` property
of the Route for the authoritative mapping), a common implementation would be to
use the kubernetes namespace mechanism to produce a URL like the following:

```http
[$revisionname].$route.$namespace.<common knative cluster suffix>
```

For example:

```http
prod.my-service.default.mydomain.com
```

## Resource YAML Definitions

YAMLs for the Knative Serving API resources are described below, describing the
basic k8s structure: metadata, spec and status, along with comments on specific
fields.

### Route

For a high-level description of Routes, [see the overview](overview.md#route).

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: my-service
  namespace: default
  labels:
    knative.dev/service: ...  # name of the Service automatically filled in

  # system generated meta
  uid: ...
  resourceVersion: ...  # used for optimistic concurrency control
  creationTimestamp: ...
  generation: ...  # updated only when spec changes; used by observedGeneration
  selfLink: ...
  ...
spec:
  traffic:
  # list of oneof configurationName | revisionName.
  #  configurationName watches configurations to address latest latestReadyRevisionName
  #  revisionName pins a specific revision
  - configurationName: ...
    name: ...  # +optional. Access as {name}.${status.domain},
               #  e.g. oss: current.my-service.default.mydomain.com
    percent: 100  # list percentages must add to 100. 0 is a valid list value
  - ...

status:
  # domain: The hostname used to access the default (traffic-split)
  #   route. Typically, this will be composed of the name and namespace
  #   along with a cluster-specific prefix (here, mydomain.com).
  domain: my-service.default.mydomain.com

  address: # knative/pkg/apis/duck/v1alpha1.Addressable
    # hostname: A DNS name for the default (traffic-split) route which can
    # be accessed without leaving the cluster environment.
    hostname: my-service.default.svc.cluster.local

  # DEPRECATED: see address.hostname (above)
  domainInternal: ...

  traffic:
  # current rollout status list. configurationName references
  #   are dereferenced to latest revision
  - revisionName: ...  # latestReadyRevisionName from a configurationName in spec
    name: ...
    percent: ...  # percentages add to 100. 0 is a valid list value
  - ...

  conditions:  # See also the [error conditions documentation](errors.md)
  - type: Ready
    status: True
  - type: AllTrafficAssigned
    status: True
  - ...

  observedGeneration: ...  # last generation being reconciled
```

### Configuration

For a high-level description of Configurations,
[see the overview](overview.md#configuration).

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: my-service
  namespace: default
  labels:
    knative.dev/service: ...  # name of the Service automatically filled in
    knative.dev/route: ...  # name of the Route automatically filled in
  # system generated meta
  uid: ...
  resourceVersion: ...  # used for optimistic concurrency control
  creationTimestamp: ...
  generation: ...  # updated only when spec changes; used by observedGeneration
  selfLink: ...
  ...
spec:
  # +optional. a complete definition of the build resource to create.
  # For back-compat, this may also be a build.knative.dev/v1alpha1.BuildSpec
  build:
    # This inlines an example with knative/build, but may be any kubernetes
    # resource that completes with a Succeeded condition as outlined in our
    # errors.md
    apiVersion: build.knative.dev
    kind: Build
    metadata:
      annotations: ...
      labels: ...
    spec: ...

  revisionTemplate:  # template for building Revision
    metadata: ...
      labels:
        knative.dev/type: "function"  # One of "function" or "app"
    spec:  # knative.RevisionTemplateSpec. Copied to a new revision

      # +optional. DEPRECATED, use buildRef
      buildName: ...

      # +optional. if rolling back, the client may set this to the
      #   previous revision's build to avoid triggering a rebuild
      buildRef:  # corev1.ObjectReference
        apiVersion: build.knative.dev/v1alpha1
        kind: Build
        name: foo-bar-00001

      # is a core.v1.Container; some fields not allowed, such as resources, ports
      container: ... # See the Container section below

      # +optional concurrency strategy.  Defaults to Multi.
      # Deprecated in favor of ContainerConcurrency.
      concurrencyModel: ...
      # +optional max request concurrency per instance.  Defaults to `0` (system decides)
      # when concurrencyModel is unspecified as well.  Defaults to `1` when
      # concurrencyModel `Single` is provided.
      containerConcurrency: ...
      # +optional. max time the instance is allowed for responding to a request
      timeoutSeconds: ...
      serviceAccountName: ...  # Name of the service account the code should run as.

status:
  # the latest created and ready to serve. Watched by Route
  latestReadyRevisionName: abc
  # latest created revision, may still be in the process of being materialized
  latestCreatedRevisionName: def
  conditions:  # See also the [error conditions documentation](errors.md)
  - type: Ready
    status: False
    reason: ContainerMissing
    message: "Unable to start because container is missing and build failed."
  observedGeneration: ...  # last generation being reconciled
```

### Revision

For a high-level description of Revisions,
[see the overview](overview.md#revision).

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Revision
metadata:
  name: myservice-a1e34  # system generated
  namespace: default
  labels:
    knative.dev/configuration: ...  # name of the Configuration automatically filled in
    knative.dev/service: ...  # name of the Service automatically filled in
    knative.dev/configurationGeneration: ... # generation of configuration that created this Revision
  # system generated meta
  uid: ...
  resourceVersion: ...  # used for optimistic concurrency control
  creationTimestamp: ...
  generation: ...
  selfLink: ...
  ...

# spec populated by Configuration
spec:
  # +optional. DEPRECATED use buildRef
  buildName: ...

  # +optional. a reference to the Kubernetes resource that is responsible
  # for producing this Revision's image. This resource is expected to
  # terminate with a "Succeeded" condition as outlined in errors.md
  buildRef:  # corev1.ObjectReference
    apiVersion: build.knative.dev/v1alpha1
    kind: Build
    name: foo-bar-00001

  container: ... # See the Container section below

  # Name of the service account the code should run as.
  serviceAccountName: ...

  # Deprecated and not updated anymore
  # Used to be the Revision's level of readiness for receiving traffic.
  servingState: Active | Reserve | Retired

  # Some function or server frameworks or application code may be
  # written to expect that each request will be granted a single-tenant
  # process to run (i.e. that the request code is run
  # single-threaded). An containerConcurrency value of `1` will
  # guarantee that only one request is handled at a time by a given
  # instance of the Revision container. A value of `2` or more will
  # limit request concurrency to that value.  A value of `0` means the
  # system should decide.
  containerConcurrency: 0 | 1 | 2-N
  # Deprecated in favor of containerConcurrency
  concurrencyModel: Single | Multi

  # Many higher-level systems impose a per-request response deadline.
  timeoutSeconds: ...

status:
  # This is a copy of metadata from the container image or grafeas,
  # indicating the provenance of the revision. This is based on the
  # container image, but may need further clarification.
  imageSource:
    git|gcs: ...

  conditions:  # See also the documentation in errors.md
   - type: Ready
     status: False
     message: "Starting Instances"
  # If spec.buildRef is provided
  - type: BuildSucceeded
    status: True
  - ...

  # URL for accessing the logs generated by this specific revision.
  # Note that logs may still be access controlled separately from
  # access to the API object.
  logUrl: "http://logging.infra.mycompany.com/...?filter=revision_uid=a1e34&..."

  # serviceName: The name for the core Kubernetes Service that fronts this
  #   revision. Typically, the name will be the same as the name of the
  #   revision.
  serviceName: myservice-a1e34

  # imageDigest: The imageDigest is the spec.container.image field resolved
  #   to a particular digest at revision creation.
  imageDigest: gcr.io/my-project/...@sha256:60ab5...
```

## Service

For a high-level description of Services,
[see the overview](overview.md#service).

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: myservice
  namespace: default
  labels:
    knative.dev/type: "function"  # convention, one of "function" or "app"
  # system generated meta
  uid: ...
  resourceVersion: ...  # used for optimistic concurrency control
  creationTimestamp: ...
  generation: ...
  selfLink: ...
  ...

# spec contains one of several possible rollout styles
spec:  # One of "runLatest", "release", "pinned" (DEPRECATED), or "manual"

  # Example, only one of "runLatest", "release", "pinned" (DEPRECATED), or "manual" can be set in practice.
  runLatest:
    configuration:  # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.ConfigurationSpec
      # +optional. The build resource to instantiate to produce the container.
      build: ...
      revisionTemplate:
        spec: # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.RevisionSpec
          container: ... # See the Container section below
          containerConcurrency: ... # Optional
          timeoutSeconds: ... # Optional
          serviceAccountName: ...  # Name of the service account the code should run as

  # Example, only one of "runLatest", "release", "pinned" (DEPRECATED), or "manual" can be set in practice.
  pinned:
    revisionName: myservice-00013  # Auto-generated revision name
    configuration:  # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.ConfigurationSpec
      # +optional. The build resource to instantiate to produce the container.
      build: ...
      revisionTemplate:
        spec: # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.RevisionSpec
          container: ... # See the Container section below
          containerConcurrency: ... # Optional
          timeoutSeconds: ... # Optional
          serviceAccountName: ...  # Name of the service account the code should run as

  # Example, only one of "runLatest", "release", "pinned" (DEPRECATED), or "manual" can be set in practice.
  release:
    # Ordered list of 1 or 2 revisions. First revision is traffic target
    # "current" and second revision is traffic target "candidate".
    revisions: ["myservice-00013", "myservice-00015"]
    rolloutPercent: 50 # Percent [0-99] of traffic to route to "candidate" revision
    configuration:  # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.ConfigurationSpec
      # +optional. The build resource to instantiate to produce the container.
      build: ...
      revisionTemplate:
        spec: # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.RevisionSpec
          container: ... # See the Container section below
          containerConcurrency: ... # Optional
          timeoutSeconds: ... # Optional
          serviceAccountName: ...  # Name of the service account the code should run as

  # Example, only one of "runLatest", "release", "pinned" (DEPRECATED), or "manual" can be set in practice.
  # Manual has no fields. It enables direct access to modify a previously created
  # Route and Configuration
  manual: {}
status:
  # This information is copied from the owned Configuration and Route.

  # The latest created and ready to serve Revision.
  latestReadyRevisionName: abc
  # Latest created Revision, may still be in the process of being materialized.
  latestCreatedRevisionName: def

  # domain: The hostname used to access the default (traffic-split)
  #   route. Typically, this will be composed of the name and namespace
  #   along with a cluster-specific prefix (here, mydomain.com).
  domain: myservice.default.mydomain.com

  address: # knative/pkg/apis/duck/v1alpha1.Addressable
    # hostname: A DNS name for the default (traffic-split) route which can
    # be accessed without leaving the cluster environment.
    hostname: myservice.default.svc.cluster.local

  # DEPRECATED: see address.hostname (above)
  domainInternal: ...

  # current rollout status list. configurationName references
  #   are dereferenced to latest revision
  traffic:
  - revisionName: ...  # latestReadyRevisionName from a configurationName in spec
    name: ...
    percent: ...  # percentages add to 100. 0 is a valid list value
  - ...

  conditions:  # See also the documentation in errors.md
  - type: Ready
    status: False
    reason: RevisionMissing
    message: "Revision 'qyzz' referenced in traffic not found"
  - type: ConfigurationsReady
    status: False
    reason: ContainerMissing
    message: "Unable to start because container is missing failed."
  - type: RoutesReady
    status: False
    reason: RevisionMissing
    message: "Revision 'qyzz' referenced in traffic not found"

  observedGeneration: ...  # last generation being reconciled
```

## Container

This is a
[core.v1.Container](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.10/#container-v1-core).
Some fields are not allowed, such as name and volumeMounts.

This type is not used on its own but is found composed inside
[Service](#service), [Configuration](#configuration), and [Revision](#revision).

```yaml
container: # v1.Container
  # image either provided as pre-built container, or built by Knative Serving from
  # source. When built by knative, set to the same as build template, e.g.
  # build.template.arguments[_IMAGE], as the "promise" of a future build.
  # If buildRef is provided, it is expected that this image will be
  # present when the referenced build is complete.
  image: gcr.io/...
  command: ["run"]
  args: []
  env:
    # list of environment vars
    - name: FOO
      value: bar
    - name: HELLO
      value: world
    - ...

  # Optional, only a single containerPort may be specified.
  # This can be specified to select a specific port for incoming traffic.
  # This is useful if your application cannot discover the port to listen
  # on through the $PORT environment variable that is always set within the container.
  # Some fields are not allowed, such as hostIP and hostPort.
  ports: # core.v1.ContainerPort array
    # Valid range is [1-65535], except 8012 (RequestQueuePort)
    # and 8022 (RequestQueueAdminPort).
    - containerPort: ...
      name: ... # Optional, one of "http1", "h2c"
      protocol: ... # Optional, one of "", "tcp"

  livenessProbe: ... # Optional
  readinessProbe: ... # Optional
  resources: ... # Optional
```

Commit message:

Allow VolumeMounts to be specified in Container.
This extends the knative/serving API to allow for ConfigMaps and Secrets to be mounted as volumes.  All other forms of volume are disallowed.

The container's volume mounts must include all of the provided volumes, they must be ReadOnly (this is defaulted in the webhook), and only a MountPath may be specified.

These are then passed through to the Deployment, and the rest is up to K8s.

Related: https://github.com/knative/serving/issues/1504

docs/spec/spec.md, after:

# Knative Serving API spec

This file contains the [resource paths](#resource-paths) and
[yaml schemas](#resource-yaml-definitions) that make up the Knative Serving API.

## Resource Paths

Resource paths in the Knative Serving API have the following standard k8s form:

```http
/apis/{apiGroup}/{apiVersion}/namespaces/{metadata.namespace}/{kind}/{metadata.name}
```

For example:

```http
/apis/serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1/namespaces/default/routes/my-service
```

It is expected that each Route will provide a name within a cluster-wide DNS
name. While no particular URL scheme is mandated (consult the `domain` property
of the Route for the authoritative mapping), a common implementation would be to
use the kubernetes namespace mechanism to produce a URL like the following:

```http
[$revisionname].$route.$namespace.<common knative cluster suffix>
```

For example:

```http
prod.my-service.default.mydomain.com
```

## Resource YAML Definitions

YAMLs for the Knative Serving API resources are described below, describing the
basic k8s structure: metadata, spec and status, along with comments on specific
fields.

### Route

For a high-level description of Routes, [see the overview](overview.md#route).

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: my-service
  namespace: default
  labels:
    knative.dev/service: ...  # name of the Service automatically filled in

  # system generated meta
  uid: ...
  resourceVersion: ...  # used for optimistic concurrency control
  creationTimestamp: ...
  generation: ...  # updated only when spec changes; used by observedGeneration
  selfLink: ...
  ...
spec:
  traffic:
  # list of oneof configurationName | revisionName.
  #  configurationName watches configurations to address latest latestReadyRevisionName
  #  revisionName pins a specific revision
  - configurationName: ...
    name: ...  # +optional. Access as {name}.${status.domain},
               #  e.g. oss: current.my-service.default.mydomain.com
    percent: 100  # list percentages must add to 100. 0 is a valid list value
  - ...

status:
  # domain: The hostname used to access the default (traffic-split)
  #   route. Typically, this will be composed of the name and namespace
  #   along with a cluster-specific prefix (here, mydomain.com).
  domain: my-service.default.mydomain.com

  address: # knative/pkg/apis/duck/v1alpha1.Addressable
    # hostname: A DNS name for the default (traffic-split) route which can
    # be accessed without leaving the cluster environment.
    hostname: my-service.default.svc.cluster.local

  # DEPRECATED: see address.hostname (above)
  domainInternal: ...

  traffic:
  # current rollout status list. configurationName references
  #   are dereferenced to latest revision
  - revisionName: ...  # latestReadyRevisionName from a configurationName in spec
    name: ...
    percent: ...  # percentages add to 100. 0 is a valid list value
  - ...

  conditions:  # See also the [error conditions documentation](errors.md)
  - type: Ready
    status: True
  - type: AllTrafficAssigned
    status: True
  - ...

  observedGeneration: ...  # last generation being reconciled
```

### Configuration

For a high-level description of Configurations,
[see the overview](overview.md#configuration).

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: my-service
  namespace: default
  labels:
    knative.dev/service: ...  # name of the Service automatically filled in
    knative.dev/route: ...  # name of the Route automatically filled in
  # system generated meta
  uid: ...
  resourceVersion: ...  # used for optimistic concurrency control
  creationTimestamp: ...
  generation: ...  # updated only when spec changes; used by observedGeneration
  selfLink: ...
  ...
spec:
  # +optional. a complete definition of the build resource to create.
  # For back-compat, this may also be a build.knative.dev/v1alpha1.BuildSpec
  build:
    # This inlines an example with knative/build, but may be any kubernetes
    # resource that completes with a Succeeded condition as outlined in our
    # errors.md
    apiVersion: build.knative.dev
    kind: Build
    metadata:
      annotations: ...
      labels: ...
    spec: ...

  revisionTemplate:  # template for building Revision
    metadata: ...
      labels:
        knative.dev/type: "function"  # One of "function" or "app"
    spec:  # knative.RevisionTemplateSpec. Copied to a new revision

      # +optional. DEPRECATED, use buildRef
      buildName: ...

      # +optional. if rolling back, the client may set this to the
      #   previous revision's build to avoid triggering a rebuild
      buildRef:  # corev1.ObjectReference
        apiVersion: build.knative.dev/v1alpha1
        kind: Build
        name: foo-bar-00001

      # is a core.v1.Container; some fields not allowed, such as resources, ports
      container: ... # See the Container section below

      # is a heavily restricted []core.v1.Volume; only the secret and configMap
      # types are allowed.
      volumes:
      - name: foo
        secret: ...
      - name: bar
        configMap: ...

      # +optional concurrency strategy.  Defaults to Multi.
      # Deprecated in favor of ContainerConcurrency.
      concurrencyModel: ...
      # +optional max request concurrency per instance.  Defaults to `0` (system decides)
      # when concurrencyModel is unspecified as well.  Defaults to `1` when
      # concurrencyModel `Single` is provided.
      containerConcurrency: ...
      # +optional. max time the instance is allowed for responding to a request
      timeoutSeconds: ...
      serviceAccountName: ...  # Name of the service account the code should run as.

status:
  # the latest created and ready to serve. Watched by Route
  latestReadyRevisionName: abc
  # latest created revision, may still be in the process of being materialized
  latestCreatedRevisionName: def
  conditions:  # See also the [error conditions documentation](errors.md)
  - type: Ready
    status: False
    reason: ContainerMissing
    message: "Unable to start because container is missing and build failed."
  observedGeneration: ...  # last generation being reconciled
```

### Revision

For a high-level description of Revisions,
[see the overview](overview.md#revision).

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Revision
metadata:
  name: myservice-a1e34  # system generated
  namespace: default
  labels:
    knative.dev/configuration: ...  # name of the Configuration automatically filled in
    knative.dev/service: ...  # name of the Service automatically filled in
    knative.dev/configurationGeneration: ... # generation of configuration that created this Revision
  # system generated meta
  uid: ...
  resourceVersion: ...  # used for optimistic concurrency control
  creationTimestamp: ...
  generation: ...
  selfLink: ...
  ...

# spec populated by Configuration
spec:
  # +optional. DEPRECATED use buildRef
  buildName: ...

  # +optional. a reference to the Kubernetes resource that is responsible
  # for producing this Revision's image. This resource is expected to
  # terminate with a "Succeeded" condition as outlined in errors.md
  buildRef:  # corev1.ObjectReference
    apiVersion: build.knative.dev/v1alpha1
    kind: Build
    name: foo-bar-00001

  container: ... # See the Container section below

  # is a heavily restricted []core.v1.Volume; only the secret and configMap
  # types are allowed.
  volumes:
  - name: foo
    secret: ...
  - name: bar
    configMap: ...

  # Name of the service account the code should run as.
  serviceAccountName: ...

  # Deprecated and not updated anymore
  # Used to be the Revision's level of readiness for receiving traffic.
  servingState: Active | Reserve | Retired

  # Some function or server frameworks or application code may be
  # written to expect that each request will be granted a single-tenant
  # process to run (i.e. that the request code is run
  # single-threaded). An containerConcurrency value of `1` will
  # guarantee that only one request is handled at a time by a given
  # instance of the Revision container. A value of `2` or more will
  # limit request concurrency to that value.  A value of `0` means the
  # system should decide.
  containerConcurrency: 0 | 1 | 2-N
  # Deprecated in favor of containerConcurrency
  concurrencyModel: Single | Multi

  # Many higher-level systems impose a per-request response deadline.
  timeoutSeconds: ...

status:
  # This is a copy of metadata from the container image or grafeas,
  # indicating the provenance of the revision. This is based on the
  # container image, but may need further clarification.
  imageSource:
    git|gcs: ...

  conditions:  # See also the documentation in errors.md
   - type: Ready
     status: False
     message: "Starting Instances"
  # If spec.buildRef is provided
  - type: BuildSucceeded
    status: True
  - ...

  # URL for accessing the logs generated by this specific revision.
  # Note that logs may still be access controlled separately from
  # access to the API object.
  logUrl: "http://logging.infra.mycompany.com/...?filter=revision_uid=a1e34&..."

  # serviceName: The name for the core Kubernetes Service that fronts this
  #   revision. Typically, the name will be the same as the name of the
  #   revision.
  serviceName: myservice-a1e34

  # imageDigest: The imageDigest is the spec.container.image field resolved
  #   to a particular digest at revision creation.
  imageDigest: gcr.io/my-project/...@sha256:60ab5...
```

## Service

For a high-level description of Services,
[see the overview](overview.md#service).

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: myservice
  namespace: default
  labels:
    knative.dev/type: "function"  # convention, one of "function" or "app"
  # system generated meta
  uid: ...
  resourceVersion: ...  # used for optimistic concurrency control
  creationTimestamp: ...
  generation: ...
  selfLink: ...
  ...

# spec contains one of several possible rollout styles
spec:  # One of "runLatest", "release", "pinned" (DEPRECATED), or "manual"

  # Example, only one of "runLatest", "release", "pinned" (DEPRECATED), or "manual" can be set in practice.
  runLatest:
    configuration:  # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.ConfigurationSpec
      # +optional. The build resource to instantiate to produce the container.
      build: ...
      revisionTemplate:
        spec: # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.RevisionSpec
          container: ... # See the Container section below
          volumes: ... # Optional
          containerConcurrency: ... # Optional
          timeoutSeconds: ... # Optional
          serviceAccountName: ...  # Name of the service account the code should run as

  # Example, only one of "runLatest", "release", "pinned" (DEPRECATED), or "manual" can be set in practice.
  pinned:
    revisionName: myservice-00013  # Auto-generated revision name
    configuration:  # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.ConfigurationSpec
      # +optional. The build resource to instantiate to produce the container.
      build: ...
      revisionTemplate:
        spec: # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.RevisionSpec
          container: ... # See the Container section below
          volumes: ... # Optional
          containerConcurrency: ... # Optional
          timeoutSeconds: ... # Optional
          serviceAccountName: ...  # Name of the service account the code should run as

  # Example, only one of "runLatest", "release", "pinned" (DEPRECATED), or "manual" can be set in practice.
  release:
    # Ordered list of 1 or 2 revisions. First revision is traffic target
    # "current" and second revision is traffic target "candidate".
    revisions: ["myservice-00013", "myservice-00015"]
    rolloutPercent: 50 # Percent [0-99] of traffic to route to "candidate" revision
    configuration:  # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.ConfigurationSpec
      # +optional. The build resource to instantiate to produce the container.
      build: ...
      revisionTemplate:
        spec: # serving.knative.dev/v1alpha1.RevisionSpec
          container: ... # See the Container section below
          volumes: ... # Optional
          containerConcurrency: ... # Optional
          timeoutSeconds: ... # Optional
          serviceAccountName: ...  # Name of the service account the code should run as

  # Example, only one of "runLatest", "release", "pinned" (DEPRECATED), or "manual" can be set in practice.
  # Manual has no fields. It enables direct access to modify a previously created
  # Route and Configuration
  manual: {}
status:
  # This information is copied from the owned Configuration and Route.

  # The latest created and ready to serve Revision.
  latestReadyRevisionName: abc
  # Latest created Revision, may still be in the process of being materialized.
  latestCreatedRevisionName: def

  # domain: The hostname used to access the default (traffic-split)
  #   route. Typically, this will be composed of the name and namespace
  #   along with a cluster-specific prefix (here, mydomain.com).
  domain: myservice.default.mydomain.com

  address: # knative/pkg/apis/duck/v1alpha1.Addressable
    # hostname: A DNS name for the default (traffic-split) route which can
    # be accessed without leaving the cluster environment.
    hostname: myservice.default.svc.cluster.local

  # DEPRECATED: see address.hostname (above)
  domainInternal: ...

  # current rollout status list. configurationName references
  #   are dereferenced to latest revision
  traffic:
  - revisionName: ...  # latestReadyRevisionName from a configurationName in spec
    name: ...
    percent: ...  # percentages add to 100. 0 is a valid list value
  - ...

  conditions:  # See also the documentation in errors.md
  - type: Ready
    status: False
    reason: RevisionMissing
    message: "Revision 'qyzz' referenced in traffic not found"
  - type: ConfigurationsReady
    status: False
    reason: ContainerMissing
    message: "Unable to start because container is missing failed."
  - type: RoutesReady
    status: False
    reason: RevisionMissing
    message: "Revision 'qyzz' referenced in traffic not found"

  observedGeneration: ...  # last generation being reconciled
```

## Container

This is a
[core.v1.Container](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.10/#container-v1-core).
Some fields are not allowed, such as name and volumeMounts.

This type is not used on its own but is found composed inside
[Service](#service), [Configuration](#configuration), and [Revision](#revision).

```yaml
container: # v1.Container
  # image either provided as pre-built container, or built by Knative Serving from
  # source. When built by knative, set to the same as build template, e.g.
  # build.template.arguments[_IMAGE], as the "promise" of a future build.
  # If buildRef is provided, it is expected that this image will be
  # present when the referenced build is complete.
  image: gcr.io/...
  command: ["run"]
  args: []
  env:
    # list of environment vars
    - name: FOO
      value: bar
    - name: HELLO
      value: world
    - ...

  # Optional, only a single containerPort may be specified.
  # This can be specified to select a specific port for incoming traffic.
  # This is useful if your application cannot discover the port to listen
  # on through the $PORT environment variable that is always set within the container.
  # Some fields are not allowed, such as hostIP and hostPort.
  ports: # core.v1.ContainerPort array
    # Valid range is [1-65535], except 8012 (RequestQueuePort)
    # and 8022 (RequestQueueAdminPort).
    - containerPort: ...
      name: ... # Optional, one of "http1", "h2c"
      protocol: ... # Optional, one of "", "tcp"

  # This specifies where the volumes present in the RevisionSpec will be mounted into
  # the container.  Each of the volumes in the ConfigurationSpec must be mounted here
  # or it is an error.
  volumeMounts:
  - name: ... # This must match a name from Volumes
    mountPath: ... # Where to mount the named Volume.
    readOnly: ... # Must be True, will default to True, so it may be omitted.
    # All other fields are disallowed.

  livenessProbe: ... # Optional
  readinessProbe: ... # Optional
  resources: ... # Optional
```
